---
layout: post
title: Gravity movie - Life of an Entrepreneur
subheading: 16 Oct 2013, Mumbai
---

Today, I watched <a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1454468" target="_blank">Gravity</a> movie starring Sandra Bullock and George Clooney with my friends <a href="https://twitter.com/jayeshgopalan" target="_blank">jayesh gopalan</a>, <a href="https://www.facebook.com/singhakky" target="_blank">Ankit Singh</a> and <a href="https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100006012072022" target="_blank">Sachin Gopalan</a>.

While watching the movie  I was in surprised to find how much the movie is resembling to the life on entrepreneur.

Some will say the movie does not follow the laws of physics. But it's not about it, its about the message, the film wants to convey.

<code>
No matter how bad it gets, don't give up. 
</code>

keep trying hard. Either you succeed or fail. In both case you will have a hell of a story or experience to tell.

In the movie, Ryan Stone(Sandra Bullock) is like an entrepreneur and Matt Kowalski(George Clooney) is like an mentor and advisor, guiding her throughout the movie.

For an entrepreneur self-motivation and perseverance is very improtant.
They need to be self motivated and inspired. There will be plenty of times when they feel demoralized and exhausted. They lose their belief. That's where mentors and advisors comes in. They believe in the entrepreneur and on his/her potential. They guide and encourage the entrepreneur tp continue their path and not to setback due to some diffculties or inteference.


So, if you haven't seen the movie yet, you should go watch it and let me know your experience with it.